```
The given code snippet is used to determine the length of the shortest string in an array of strings (strs). Let’s break it down step by step:

Understanding the .reduce() Method

The .reduce() method iterates over an array and accumulates a single value based on a provided callback function.

Breaking Down the Code

const shortest = strs.reduce(
  (minLength, currentStr) => Math.min(minLength, currentStr.length),
  Infinity
);

	1.	Initial Value (Infinity):
	•	The second argument to .reduce() (Infinity) is the starting value (minLength). This ensures that any string length encountered will be smaller.
	2.	Iterating Over Each String (currentStr):
	•	For each string in strs, we compare its length (currentStr.length) with minLength.
	•	Math.min(minLength, currentStr.length) ensures that minLength always holds the shortest length encountered so far.
	3.	Final Result (shortest):
	•	After all iterations, shortest holds the length of the shortest string in strs.

Example Execution

const strs = ["apple", "app", "apricot"];

const shortest = strs.reduce(
  (minLength, currentStr) => Math.min(minLength, currentStr.length),
  Infinity
);

console.log(shortest); // Output: 3

	•	"apple" → min(∞, 5) → 5
	•	"app" → min(5, 3) → 3
	•	"apricot" → min(3, 7) → 3

Thus, shortest = 3, which is the length of "app".

Why Use Infinity?
	•	If strs were empty ([]), reduce() would return Infinity, avoiding unintended behavior.
	•	Any valid string length is always smaller than Infinity.

This approach efficiently finds the shortest string length in O(n) time complexity, where n is the number of strings in strs.
```

The solution employs a simple yet effective algorithm that involves iterating over each character position of the strings in the array and comparing them to find the longest common prefix.

Here's how the implementation works step by step:

We start by looking at the first string in the array, strs[0], and assume that it could be the potential longest common prefix. We use this string as a reference to compare with all other strings.

We then enter a for-loop, which iterates over the character indices of the first string. The variable i represents the index of the character we are currently checking.

Within this loop, we initiate another for-loop that iterates through the remaining strings in the array—strs[1:].

For each string s in this inner loop, we perform two checks: a. If the current index i is greater than or equal to the length of the string s, this means we have reached the end of this string, and thus, it cannot have a longer common prefix. b. If the character at index i of the string s does not match the character at the same index in strs[0], this indicates that the current character does not form part of a common prefix.

If either condition in the inner loop is true, we have identified the end of the common prefix, and we return the substring of the first string from index 0 to i, using s[:i]. This is the longest common prefix found up to that point.

If the inner loop completes without triggering the return statement, it means that the current character at index i is shared by all strings checked, and thus, the loop continues to the next character.

If the outer loop completes without any return, this indicates that every character of the first string strs[0] is part of the common prefix for all strings. Therefore, we can safely return strs[0] as the longest common prefix.

This algorithm essentially implements a character-by-character comparison, making use of string slicing for efficient checking and early stopping as soon as a mismatch is found. No additional data structures are needed, thus the space complexity is kept to a minimum.

The early return mechanism greatly improves performance by terminating the comparison as soon as the longest common prefix is established, without further unnecessary comparisons.

The procedure can be visualized as lining up all the strings vertically and scanning down the columns (indices). Once a discrepancy is found in any column, we know that the common prefix can only be as long as the last column without discrepancies.

Example Walkthrough
To illustrate the solution approach, let's take an example array of strings: ["cardboard", "cart", "carrot", "carbon"]. We want to find the longest common prefix among these strings.

Initial Assumption: We start with the assumption that the first string "cardboard" is our longest common prefix candidate.

Character-by-Character Comparison:

We start comparing the first character 'c' from "cardboard" with the first character of all the other strings. All strings have 'c' as their first character.
Next, we compare the second character 'a' from "cardboard" with the second character of the other strings. All strings have 'a' as their second character.
We continue to the third character 'r' from "cardboard" and compare it with the third character of the other strings. All strings have 'r' as well.
Mismatch and Early Termination:

Now we move to the fourth character 'd' from "cardboard". However, when we compare it with the fourth character of "cart", we find that it is 't' and not 'd'. This is a mismatch.
Since "cart" has no more characters to compare (it is shorter than "cardboard"), this is our signal to stop.
Returning the Result: At this point, we found that all strings share the prefix "car". We return this prefix as it is the longest common prefix that can be formed from all given strings.

The longest common prefix based on our algorithm is "car". This was determined efficiently by stopping comparisons once the first mismatch occurred or a string ended, ensuring no extra work was done.
